# Bachelor Thesis

Thijmen Adam

s4882067

Rijksuniversiteit Groningen

More details about the whole process can be found on the respective GitHub mentioned in each section.
-------------------------

## Obtaining and Processing data
For this project data from OpenBoek is used (can be found here: https://github.com/andreasvc/openboek). In specific we are looking at the book _Dichtertje_ by Nescio. This book has already been tokenized so we will use this data for the project. First the data is split on lines accumulating by 100. It is manually done from 100 until 969 lines. Splitting the data is done with splitter.py and can be used as follows:

    $ python3 splitter.py Nescio_Dichtertje.tok 100 tokenized/lines100.tok

Now we have the first 100 lines of the tokenized text of _Dichtertje_ by Nescio. Using these 100 lines we can also create parse trees using Alpino with the following command. This of coures also has to be done for all amounts of lines.

    $ cat tokenized/lines100.tok | Alpino number_analyses=1 end_hook=xml -parse -flag treebank parses/100/Nescio_Dichtertje

-------------------------

## Coreference Resolution

Utilizing these parse trees we can start using Dutchcoref (can be found here: https://github.com/andreasvc/dutchcoref/). Dutchcoref creates the coreference resolutions made from the parse trees generated with Alpino. The following command is used to create a .conll file. A .conll file is the standardized way to output coreference and is also how you can utilize the evaluation method in the next step.

    $ python3 dutchcoref/coref.py --fmt=booknlp parses/100/Nescio_Dichtertje > corefs/100/Nescio_Dichtertje.conll

For this it is also important that there is a gold standard for each file. These can be created by utilizing gold_split.py. This program counts the amount of lines in the .conll files generated by Dutchcoref and splits the golden standard .conll file based on the amount of lines in the generated file. It then outputs a golden standard .conll file with the amount of required lines.

    $ python3 code/gold_split.py ../openboek/coref/Nescio_Dichtertje.conll corefs/100/Nescio_Dichtertje.conll corefs/100/Nescio_Dichtertje_gold

-------------------------

## Evaluation

For the evaluation we use the Coval evaluation method (can be found here: https://github.com/andreasvc/coval/). With the following command you get the results in various different scores. For this research we are only looking at the CoNLL score and the LEA F1 score.

    $ python3 coval/scorer.py corefs/100/gold/Nescio_Dichtertje_gold.conll corefs/100/Nescio_Dichtertje.conll

